Add DOP java comparative analysis first draft (#7095)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: components/integration/replace-java/code/java-bbe/type-annotation-n-inference.md

---
title: 'Implicit and Explicit Typing'

> description: Java and Ballerina supports both explicit typying and type inference. Explicit typing allow developers to specify the types of variables, function parameters, and return values explicitly. This clarity aids in understanding the expected data types and promotes data separation. Type inference, on the other hand, automatically infers types based on assigned values, reducing the need for explicit annotations and making the code more concise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Java and Ballerina support both explicit typing and type inference. Explicit typing allow developers to specify the types of variables, function parameters, and return values explicitly. This clarity aids in understanding the expected data types and promotes data separation. Type inference, on the other hand, automatically infers types based on assigned values, reducing the need for explicit annotations and making the code more concise.
```
